# AWS S3 

S3 stands for Simple storage service most visible features of AWS after EC2. 

## What is not S3

Storage in normal terms means you mount in Unix systems as a directory or Windows using NFS or other file storage protocols. S3 is not your typical NAS or SAN storage system and you can't mount it.
S3 is not typical storage till now you know about it.

 - You can't mount S3 as file system, you can't edit a file stored in S3.
 - You can create/delete/retrieve S3 file.
 - Since it is not typical file, we call it S3 stored content as object, S3 as object storage.

## High availability S3

 - Starting S3, we call bucket. Bucket name is universally unique (what it means is Maria in Brazil gives S3 object name is **mariastorage** others can't create bucket with same name).
 - Select your region for S3
 - S3 has different storage classes start with standard S3 class, Glacier is used when your requirement to read the data is very rare. (This happens if you store data in S3 for backup purpose).
 - -   Provides 99.99% availability and 99.999999999% durability of objects during any year (means very little down time)
 -    Able to sustain simultaneous loss of data in two zones.
**We use S3 for its high availability**

## More about S3

 - S3 is also called object storage, can store terrabytes of data. 
 - Each s3 object has url, it is ideal candidate if you run website and wanted images to store in S3
 - S3 default will have 3 version, you can configure for more versions or less
 - Life cycle management with S3 is possible, move to glaciar (less costly storage) or delete after X number of days.
 - Ideal candidate for backup data to keep in S3
 - S3 cost structure defined here (storing is very minimal, accessing cost is some what involved) [S3pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/)
 - Encryption of stored S3 data can be configured (data at rest) on server side (easy to do) or on client side (managing keys is involved).
 - 
 - ## S3 with Terraform
 - We will not cover terraform wrt to S3, it is easy to create bucket, provide acl and create life cycle management.

  ## S3 security issues

 - Providing global read and/or write access to S3 bucket
 - Uploading secure documents with out encryption
 - Uploading malicious data into S3 buckets
 - 
